[BRC-20]:
BRC-20 is an experimental community created token standard that enables the minting and transferring of fungible tokens via the Ordinals protocol on the Bitcoin blockchain.


Taking a cue from Ethereum's ERC-20 tokens, BRC-20 tokens feature different mechanisms and functions. Despite gaining massive popularity during the first half of 2023, BRC-20 tokens are still experimental, and users should exercise extreme caution.

How Were BRC-20 Tokens Created?
After the Bitcoin Ordinals protocol launched in January 2023, enabling NFTs (non-fungible tokens) to be inscribed on satoshis (sats), there has been curiosity about whether fungible tokens could be created on Bitcoin. BRC-20 token standards were created in March 2023 by a pseudonymous programmer named Domo to make minting fungible tokens on Bitcoin possible. 
The first BRC-20 token deployed was called "ordi." Bitcoin wallets quickly deployed tooling to support BRC-20 tokens. Numerous other BRC-20 tokens, many of which are meme tokens, were launched in the months after. As of May 2023, some BRC-20 tokens have experienced astronomical price increases and obtained significant market caps. The demand for BRC-20 tokens caused Bitcoin transaction fees to surge and caused significant congestion on the Bitcoin network.

How Do BRC-20 Tokens Work?
It's important to know how Bitcoin Ordinals work to better understand BRC-20 tokens. The Ordinals protocol is a system for numbering satoshis and allows users to attach extra data to satoshis in a process known as "inscription."
BRC-20 tokens utilize Ordinals inscriptions of JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) data to deploy token contracts, mint, and transfer tokens. Currently, the BRC-20 token standard allows creating a BRC-20 token with the deploy function, minting an amount of BRC-20 tokens with the mint function, and transferring an amount of BRC-20 tokens via the transfer function.


The BRC-20 token standard is new and the process of deploying, minting, and transferring BRC-20 tokens isn't user-friendly. There are also a limited number of tooling and supporting services.

Terminology:
  Bitcoin NFT    -->    inscription / ordinal
  Token    -->    brc-20 

BRC-20 advantages:
  Fungible: can be easily traded on exchanges
  Secure: built on BTC
  Compatible: integrated into the BTC ecosystem
  
  Binance has recently listed several BRC-20 tokens, including $ORDI, $SATS, and $RATS. Many traders are getting bullish on inscriptions

How to mint BRC-20 tokens?
  1.Go to Unisat
  2.Click on BRC-20
  3.Search for the ticker
  4.Click on "Mint directly" (only if token not minted out yet)
  5.Enter the amount you want to mint
  6.Unisat will ask you to sign transaction, here is what to do next:
  7.Paste your taproot wallet (to which you want the inscription to come)
  8.Choose the network fee you want to pay
  9.Submit & Pay Invoice

  To choose the right network fee go to mempool, check current medium fee and set the fee which 10% greater to ensure that your transaction will be confirmed

How to list BRC-20?
  Go to your Unisat profile
  Chose token you want to list
  Set price & Sign Transaction

  Note: After listing you won't be able to set a higher price. To delist you'll need to inscribe tokens again and pay gas fee


Differences Between BRC-20 and ERC-20 Tokens
Despite the similarity in their names, there are significant differences between the two tokens.


BRC-20 tokens exist on the Bitcoin network, while ERC-20 is a standard on the Ethereum network. BRC-20 tokens don't use smart contracts and, therefore, have much less functionality. On the contrary, ERC-20 tokens can interact with other protocols and applications to enable a wide range of services, including borrowing and lending. ERC-20 is a mature token standard with a massive number of ERC-20 tokens already created and widely used. Conceived in 2015 and officially recognized in 2017, ERC-20 tokens have been battle-tested and proven to function stably. That's not the case with BRC-20 tokens, whose future has a high degree of uncertainty.


Risks of BRC-20 Tokens
The BRC-20 token standard is currently an experiment by programmers to facilitate fungibility on the Bitcoin blockchain. As it's still being tested, many things could go wrong.


Despite the hype, BRC-20 tokens have little utility at present. The outlook is also highly questionable. Due to the ease of minting BRC-20 tokens, it's possible that most could end up being worthless. Users and investors should be cautious and conduct proper research before engaging with this new token type. 

Where can I trade brc-20? BRC-20 marketplaces?
Popular BRC-20 trading websites is 
OKX: https://www.okx.com/web3/marketplace/ordinals/brc20
UNISAT: https://unisat.io/

Useful guides:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XftBkRZ9jqk -  BRC-20 Guide

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NkZaiOm3NQc&t=119s - BRC-20 Guide

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uG-p6nmq-1I - BRC-20 Tools

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9bKB7xfqGg - Deep BRC-20 Guide and "How to find good projects"

https://twitter.com/udiWertheimer/status/1741853672793841738 - Bitcoin NFTs

[BRC-20 END]
