[ORDINAL MAXI BIZ]

omb:
  description: Ordinal Maxi Biz is a standout collection within the Bitcoin ecosystem, consisting of 5,141 one-of-one profile picture (PFP) NFTs, each inscribed directly onto the Bitcoin blockchain using the innovative Ordinals protocol.

key_details:
  total_nfts: 5,141 unique PFP NFTs.
  creators: Curated by ZK Shark with artwork by Tony Tafuro.
  significant_blocks: Some NFTs are inscribed on historically significant satoshis from blocks mined by figures like Satoshi Nakamoto and Hal Finney.
  auction_info: Christie's is set to host the first-ever auction of OMB NFTs, accepting bids in both USD and BTC. Proceeds from the top lot will benefit charity.

eye_color_distribution:
  description: Eye color traits in the OMB collection are not only a key artistic feature but also serve as markers of rarity and historical significance within the Bitcoin network.
  total_distribution:
    red: 91 NFTs
    blue: 100 NFTs
    green: 1,900 NFTs
    orange: 3,050 NFTs (calculated as the remainder of the collection)
  explanation:
    - Red eye color traits are the rarest, appearing in only 91 NFTs. These are particularly valued because they are inscribed on some of the earliest mined Bitcoin satoshis, notably those from significant blocks like those mined by Bitcoin creator Satoshi Nakamoto and early adopter Hal Finney.
    - Blue eye color traits, appearing in 100 NFTs, are also highly prized. These are typically found on satoshis from blocks mined shortly after those of the red traits, adding a layer of rarity but slightly less than the red.
    - Green eye color traits are more common with 1,900 NFTs. While still valuable, these traits are inscribed on more commonly available satoshis within the Bitcoin blockchain, reflecting a broader historical span.
    - Orange eye color traits are the most common, constituting the majority of the collection with 3,050 NFTs. These traits are found on the most recently mined satoshis relative to the others, offering the widest accessibility among collectors.

rarity_implications:
  description: The rarity of the eye color traits directly influences the market value and collectibility of each NFT within the OMB collection.
  details:
    - Red traits, due to their extreme rarity and the historical significance of their satoshis, command the highest premiums.
    - Blue and green traits, while less rare than red, still hold significant value due to their limited numbers and specific blockchain provenance.
    - Orange traits, being the most plentiful, are more accessible but are essential for completing collections and still hold considerable interest due to their artistic value and part of the larger OMB narrative.

provenance_importance:
  description: The unique aspect of OMB NFTs is their direct link to the history of Bitcoin’s blockchain. Each color trait not only represents artistic diversity but also encapsulates a piece of Bitcoin’s storied past, making them highly sought after by collectors who value both digital art and cryptocurrency heritage.

significance:
  cultural_impact: OMB represents one of the first major attempts to utilize Bitcoin's blockchain for detailed and complex digital art, demonstrating the potential for cultural expression in this new medium.
  technical_innovation: By using the Ordinals protocol, OMB embeds artwork directly into the blockchain, creating a permanent and immutable digital legacy.
  historical_importance: The use of early mined Bitcoin satoshis links this collection to the foundational days of Bitcoin, enhancing its appeal to collectors and historians alike.

market_value:
  rarity_impact: The rarity of the eye color traits, particularly red and blue, significantly influences the market value and collector interest in the collection.

community_engagement:
  social_media_links:
    twitter: [Follow OMB on Twitter](https://twitter.com/OrdinalMaxiBiz)
    marketplace: [View OMB on Magic Eden](https://magiceden.io/ordinals/marketplace/omb)

[ORDINAL MAXI BIZ END]
