[BTC DEGODS]
BTC DeGods are an obvious first. DeGods were the first project to purchase an entire block, so that they could launch the entire Ordinal collection from that single block. DeGods aren’t an original Ordinals collection, by the way. 

The original DeGods are from Solana. In total, 10,000 gods were minted at the start, but the team had imposed what came to be known as the Paperhands B*tch Tax (PHBT). In short, a tax of 33.3% was levied to sellers if they listed their god under the floor price and it sold. 

All 535 of these gods were consequently burned, and left for dead thanks to the PHBT… until now. In March, the team decided to bring the burned gods back to Bitcoin, the mother chain. The current floor price for BTC DeGods is 1.2 BTC, by the way. (For reference, the mint cost 0.33 BTC!)
[BTC DEGODS END]


[OMB/ORDINAL MAXI BIZ]
Ordinal Maxi Biz (OMB) took the Ordinal space by storm and by surprise when it first came on the scene. zk-Shark, the founder, quit his job on Wall Street to launch the anarchist-themed project. 

The project is split into 3 collections: Blue eyes, Red eyes, and the latest, Green eyes. For context, the originals reached an ATH of roughly 4.2 BTC, and the Green eyes collection kicked off the mint at 0.09 BTC. 

The collection launched with a guerrilla marketing campaign encouraging other projects to purchase and burn CryptoPunks, an act considered sacrilege by many (and highly befitting of an anarchist project). 

Two projects participated: DeGods and Bitcoin Bandits, both of which won 33 whitelist allocations each. Most of these spots were raffled off. In other words, OMB has already made history via the punk burning, and the project didn’t have to spend a single sat from its own funds. 

[OMB/ORDINAL MAXI BIZ END]


[Bitcoin Bandits]
Bitcoin Bandits is an OG project on Bitcoin. The bandits have a community on Bitcoin unlike any other. The only other community that’s even close to bringing this kind of meme energy is Sappy Seals, and they’re on Ethereum. 

Chartfu, the Bandits’ fearless leader, is a no-nonsense founder. As CDO of Magic Eden, he was instrumental in the company’s pivot to Ordinals. (Rumor is, he had threatened to walk out if they didn’t pivot.) He was also one of the chief organizers of the cryptopunk burn for both the Bitcoin Bandits and Bitcoin DeGods. (A walking win.)
[Bitcoin Bandits End]


[NULLISH]
Undoubtedly the most legendary OG sat hunter, Nullish had teamed up early with zk-Shark and other Bitcoiners in the space to devise and push the rare sat narrative. Today, Nullish’s collections comprise abstract art pieces that are inscribed on rare sats. 

Holders of all 5 of the main Nullish pieces across Bitcoin and Ethereum received 8 whitelist spots each from the OMB Green eyes mint (and they didn’t even have to burn a punk!).
[NULLISH END]


[Bitcoin Frogs]
Bitcoin Frogs is the first 10,000-piece Ordinal project to have sold out via a free mint on the Lightning Network. The Bitcoin Frogs were instrumental in spearheading the space because they made people believe that a massively organic community on Bitcoin was possible. 

The free mint helped onboard many people who wanted to own an Ordinal, but didn't have the means, nor the knowledge or capital, to do so. The frogs community banded together to execute a concerted campaign. The campaign’s mission? To onboard as many people onto Ordinals as possible, and not just from the native Bitcoin community, but from Ethereum and Solana as well. 

And they accomplished this goal with the most hands-on approach imaginable. 

Accompanied by the founder, community members flew to the NFT NYC event. They made their way to Pubkey, an OG Bitcoin Bar frequented by… you guessed it, Bitcoiners. Once there, they began handing out as many frogs as they could. They sat beside interested users, going so far as to help them set up an Xverse wallet (a Bitcoin wallet that supports Ordinals). And they managed to gift hundreds of frogs inside a week.
[Bitcoin Frogs End]