[RUNES]

runes:
  description: Runes allow Bitcoin transactions to etch, mint, and transfer Bitcoin-native digital commodities. While every inscription is unique, every unit of a rune is the same and interchangeable.
  
runestones:
  description: Runestones are rune protocol messages stored in Bitcoin transaction outputs. A transaction can have at most one runestone.
  operations:
    - etch: Create a new rune and set its properties.
    - mint: Create new units of an existing rune.
    - transfer: Transfer runes from a transaction's inputs to its outputs.

rune_properties:
  name:
    description: Names consist of letters A-Z, between 1-28 characters long, and can contain spacers (bullets) for readability. Names must be unique.
    example: UNCOMMONGOODS or UNCOMMON•GOODS
  divisibility:
    description: A rune's divisibility determines how finely it can be divided into atomic units, expressed as the number of digits permissible after the decimal point.
    examples:
      - divisibility 0 (e.g., 101)
      - divisibility 1 (e.g., 1.0)
      - divisibility 2 (e.g., 1.01)
  symbol:
    description: A rune's currency symbol is a single Unicode code point displayed after quantities of that rune. If no symbol is specified, the generic currency sign '¤' is used.
    examples:
      - '$'
      - '⧉'
      - '🧿'
  premine:
    description: The etcher of a rune can optionally allocate units of the rune to themselves upon etching, called a premine.

mint_terms:
  description: A rune can have an open mint, allowing anyone to create and allocate units of that rune, subject to certain terms set upon etching.
  terms:
    cap:
      description: The maximum number of times a rune can be minted.
    amount:
      description: The fixed amount of new units created in each mint transaction.
    start_height:
      description: The block height at which the mint opens.
    end_height:
      description: The block height after which the mint closes.
    start_offset:
      description: The mint opens at the block height equal to the start offset plus the height of the block in which the rune was etched.
    end_offset:
      description: The mint closes at the block height equal to the end offset plus the height of the block in which the rune was etched.

transfers:
  description: When transaction inputs contain runes or new runes are created, they are transferred to the transaction's outputs.
  edicts:
    description: A runestone can contain edicts that allocate runes to specific outputs.
  pointer:
    description: If no edicts are present, remaining unallocated runes are transferred to the first non-OP_RETURN output, unless a pointer specifies an alternative default output.
  burning:
    description: Runes can be burned by transferring them to an OP_RETURN output with an edict or pointer.

cenotaphs:
  description: Malformed runestones are called cenotaphs. Runes input to a transaction with a cenotaph are burned, runes etched in a cenotaph are set as unmintable, and mints in a cenotaph count towards the cap but the minted runes are burned. Cenotaphs allow for future upgrades to runestone semantics.

[RUNES END]
